---
title: Instagram without API
date: 2021-01-19 00:00:00 Z
---

In October of last year [I already wrote](/blog/instagram-on-your-website-without-api) about loading instagram on your website without an API. I edited the post several times since. Let me explain what happened: Since [instafeed.js](https://github.com/stevenschobert/instafeed.js) stopped working I have explored several approaches for showing Instagram images on a clients website without using an API. First I explored [Zapier](https://zapier.com/). I added the Instagram image URL's to a standard RSS feed, but Instagram started changing the URL's of their images over time, which made this solution only suitable for people who post every day. Therefore I explored the concept of a scraper that could fetch the images, using a headless browser. It turned out that Instagram was pretty good at blocking our IP addresses, so this did not work either. I had no choice but to do it the 'right' way...

Together with my very talented twin brother I created an actual Facebook/Instagram app, called 'profile page images', or [PPI Loader](https://profilepageimages.usecue.com). The interface is still harsh looking, but the code is pretty good. It authenticates with Instagram and gets a long lived access token. Every 24 hours a cron job downloads your latest images (when you log in you can fire this job every hour). When your access token is getting old we automatically refresh it for you. Obviously you need to grant the application access to your Instagram account, which has to be done during the registration process. The cron job saves and hosts your images in a public directory on our server. Using these images is [a piece of cake](https://profilepageimages.usecue.com/getting-started).

Currently we are in a beta phase. The app itself has been approved by Facebook/Instagram (yeah!), but we are awaiting Facebooks Business Validation. Facebook has a way of making simple things pretty hard. Because of this app, you will never have to worry about coding an 'Instagram solution'. Becoming a beta tester is as easy as entering your email address and Instagram username in [the registration form](https://profilepageimages.usecue.com/register). We can only allow for a limited amount of beta testers, so hurry! As soon as we are out of the beta phase, I will update this post (or write a new one).

Today I added automatic image scaling (today) to the service. The scaled images have 50% jpg compression, are scaled to a 500px maximum for either width or height and weigh around 20kb each. This makes a 10-image grid only 200kb. The images are served in a seperate folder within your account, called 'small', so you can also choose to link the large versions. Pretty sweet, huh?